so you've heard it before people coming
on and telling you they're burnt out
pissed off heartbroken I've had some
kind of emotional breakdown and next
year 2019 is going to be different from
2018 or 2019
is that they're gonna spend more time on
self-care and self-love and taking care
of these mysterious mental breakdowns
and emotional problems that YouTube
alone causes them and guess what I'm
here to tell you the exact opposite in
2019 unit I want to work harder on
YouTube than I ever have before I'm
gonna tell you that I want to actually
live up to a title I came up with I
don't know a few months ago but that's
been kind of haunting me for years
active research and informed opinion
what I feel is lacking in both the
mainstream media and on social media are
exactly two things I've been talking to
several different friends who have
another's platform and on other
platforms in social media and I think we
all sort of feel kind of overwhelmed and
like we need to take a break and I think
that if so many of us are feeling that
that definitely says something about the
line of work and maybe not just all of
us that may be what like society is
encouraging today's episode is sponsored
by better health they are an incredible
online therapy service that is not a
suicide hotline replacement but it is
really really helpful
YouTube is like a hotbed for creating
mental health problems I think I think
it's created a whole new set of problems
that people have never even had before
what I meet people I want to make sure
that I live up to the expectations why I
do my YouTube voice and I go hi I'm
almost oh it's so nice to meet you yeah
yeah I hope you have a great day than
all this stuff but like in normal
day-to-day life I just talk like this I
know I am by Bobby burns voice that I've
done for forever I didn't mean for it to
happen it just kind of happened
one of the characteristics that really
differentiates YouTube from any prior
era of filmmaking or broadcasting is
that the creators involved no longer
blame the industry they no longer blame
bureaucracy funding problems they never
blame a conspiracy of department heads
or any of their superiors and decision
makers they blame the psychological
stress of the art form itself I don't
know if this is ever really had before
on the scale we're all familiar with the
script at this point right well familiar
with people coming on camera and telling
you just how hard it is to talk about
your feelings just how hard it is to sit
down in front of a computer and play
make-believe or even just how hard it is
to film yourself cooking lunch and share
with the world I put in a lot of frickin
work I was working way more than a
40-hour workweek I was pretty much
working seven days a week for the moment
I woke up to like the moment I went to
bed in matters both shallow and profound
everyone wants to come on YouTube and
take your money get rich get famous and
then have a mental breakdown and explain
you how difficult it was sometimes even
just to share like surveillance footage
of themselves joking around in their own
kitchen with evidently no research
preparation no other effort put into it
other than that I'm starting this video
by telling you YouTube is easy YouTube
for me over 1,000 videos over 3.3
million views
in the last five years YouTube has been
the easiest thing I've had to do in my
life I managed to have this strange
demi-monde level micro fame level
success on YouTube
while at the same time being enrolled as
a full-time student at university having
a full-time job as a university level
instructor or / teacher professor in
China learning Chinese language I didn't
speak read or write at all when I
started this YouTube channel that I
speak reading right now an incredibly
difficult name to learn there was a
brief tumultuous period in which I
stopped learning Chinese instead of
learning Japanese some of you were here
for that at any given time during the
history of this YouTube channel I have
been involved in two or possibly three
core cases that were unbelievably
emotionally draining um through legal
machination --zz for my ex-wife or
separated wife i was prevented from
seeing my daughter for such a long time
that she forgot who I was I was then
reunited with her and on date one of the
reunion she literally had no idea who I
was
sheshu were marked in my presence that
it was really great meeting me but what
it was sad that she still never got to
see her real father
surreal conversation to have and then
over a period of two years of meeting up
with her again and again periodically
having to explain to her what her
situation was in contrast to the fiction
her biological mother was telling her
incredibly heart-rending difficult life
of lived these past five years I'm not
even mentioning things the fact my
father died hey we all gotta die
sometime he died of old age was in some
ways kind to him and in some ways cruel
YouTube is easy it's so beguiling Lee so
deceptively easy that it seems to be
that almost nobody really makes an
effort and where does that matter it
doesn't matter that much in terms of
weight loss health fitness bikini try on
videos lick your body challenge videos
taste test videos cooking videos
restaurant view news that does not
matter to me so much or I really see it
where it really hurts me because when I
look at the variety of what's available
in terms of politics
so you've heard it before you've heard
it even within the intro to this video
clips from other channels people coming
on and telling you they're burnt out
pissed off heartbroken I've had some
kind of emotional breakdown and next
year 2019 is going to be different from
2018 or 2019 if it gonna spend more time
on self-care and self-love and taking
care of these mysterious mental
breakdowns and emotional problems that
YouTube alone causes them and guess what
I'm here to tell you the exact opposite
in 2019 unit I want to work harder on
YouTube than I ever have before I'm
gonna tell you that I want to actually
live up to a title I came up with I
don't know a few months ago but that's
been kind of haunting me for years
active research and informed opinion
what I feel is lacking in both the
mainstream media and on social media are
exactly two things active research and
informed opinion whether I'm looking at
pede content from The Economist and
foreign policy or whether I'm looking at
self-styled
YouTube politics gurus like Jimmy Dore
and The Young Turks
across the whole political spectrum most
of what I see are knee-jerk reactions to
headlines and to announcements from
government officials elected or
otherwise I don't see people engaged in
active research I don't see them
presenting informed opinion most often
it's not just the voices that are
loudest that at least informed I can
tell you that after many many years
searching across the board what I see is
that the disappearance of advertising
revenue from traditional journalism has
resulted in a lever lowering tied in
both the quantity and quality of what's
available even in the English language
obviously it's going to be even more
dire in minority languages right now as
2019 begins I don't know anywhere that I
can go for really quality political
analysis even if what's going on in the
United States Canada or you
and there is absolutely nowhere I can go
for meaningful research and political
analysis of what's going on in East Asia
in South Asia in all of Asia if I'm
being honest and blunt
I remember marking my girlfriend a few
days or weeks ago when was the last time
I saw a video that talked about what's
happening in China and Japan
that wasn't just narrowly focused on
u.s. foreign policy and what President
Trump had said but that even took half a
moment to say talk about a political
event in Japan and then consider what
India had to say about it well the
government of India said what this meant
from the point of view of Australia
France or Germany but Japan other
players within Asia that little bit of
research or presenting an informed
opinion that says hey look when you see
this in the context of the last 50 years
of history here's something you might
not have thought about I don't see that
quality of content anywhere especially
not in the Economist especially not in
foreign policy magazine a YouTube mask
is almost it's just like how you talk to
a random stranger I was out like an
event or something how I would talk to
them not gonna act like all stressed out
and all this stuff but it's the weird
thing about YouTube sometimes I want to
show that side of myself but I'm showing
these that side of myself to strangers
and it's just like an odd thing when you
meet these people in real life this is
my problem I'm like exposing all this
like [ __ ] about myself that's really
deep [ __ ] that I don't talk to my
friends and family about and then they
start trying to talking to me about in
person I go I don't know who you are why
are we talking about this I want to wrap
up this video with an anecdote that
relates directly to the clip you've just
seen when I was in Chiang Mai at the
start of the court case where I was
threatened with violence defamed this
guy said explicitly I was gonna be
stabbed beaten up dragged to a police
station and he defamed me in a way that
really had very negative consequences
next several years my life maybe for the
whole rest of my life at the same time I
was meeting people face to face and I
didn't realize how special this was I
was meeting people face to face who
didn't March as fans of my channel
or didn't just know much in they were
people who had the experience repeatedly
of meeting youtubers face-to-face after
being familiar with their content for a
while on the internet and when they met
me what they said again and again I
think at least four times like it felt
like 10 times but maybe it was just
three or four times this happened but
people said this to me
verbatim people met me and said wow you
act exactly the same in person as you do
in your videos and wow you talk exactly
the same in person as you do in your
videos the time course I felt nothing I
thought nothing of it I didn't feel it
was a big deal like yeah what do you
expect do you expect like I'm playing a
fictional character with a hand puppet
and then you meet me and it's a
different dude I I do my YouTube voice
and I go hi I'm almost Owen so nice to
meet you yeah yeah I am by Bobby burns
voice that I've done for forever I
didn't mean for it to happen it just
kind of happened
this is exactly what these people been
talking about consciously or
unconsciously a lot of people start
speaking as a fictional character a lot
of people start speaking to a mask that
YouTube mask if you want to say and that
is exactly the source of a lot of these
I don't know feelings of dysphoria
feelings of depression feelings that
they've created I don't know some kind
of illusion that can't maintain some
kind of standard they can't live up to
in their relationship with your audience
and my relationship violence has never
had this kind of intermediary effect I
think everyone who meets me everyone who
talks to me on skype
everyone emails at you man it gets an
email pact everyone knows that they
really are talking not to a fictional
character but to a person is doing the
best he can one person who now wants to
take on the burden not just of sharing
autobiographical notes not just of
sharing I don't know my free time when
I'm not busy with full-time university
studies full-time jobs full-time
language learning all the other things
about this dragged me and hey part-time
parenting let's face it just had seven
days of custody with my daughter
part-time indeed somebody who's actually
taking it on as a bit of a public
service to provide the active research
and informed opinion that you know from
my perspective in 2018 you're not gonna
get anywhere else on the Internet
[Music]